{"captions":[{"id":"tthta0p48ki9gxv4","bcp47LanguageTag":"en","familyName":"English","familyNativeName":"English","hasCaptions":true,"hasVideoStream":true,"key":"wistia-production_tthta0p48ki9gxv4","mediaHashedId":"npwtmvpvwi","name":"English","nativeName":"English","wistiaLanguageCode":"eng","hash":{"lines":[{"start":0.0,"end":13.14,"text":["So we've talked about personal property now we go into commercial property."]},{"start":13.14,"end":18.04,"text":["Commercial property is defined as any property that's owned or used by a business and it typically"]},{"start":18.04,"end":22.5,"text":["only provides coverage while that property is on the premises."]},{"start":22.5,"end":26.98,"text":["Commercial property is generally broken down into three types which will define later."]},{"start":26.98,"end":31.22,"text":["We have building, stock, and equipment."]},{"start":31.22,"end":35.86,"text":["When it comes to insuring commercial property risks, we break them down into two types."]},{"start":35.86,"end":39.66,"text":["You have small risks and large, more complex risks."]},{"start":39.66,"end":44.58,"text":["So small risks typically involve some limited exposures and typically in package policy"]},{"start":44.58,"end":53.18,"text":["here would be the most effective method to ensure them as far as efficiency and cost."]},{"start":53.18,"end":57.14,"text":["When it comes to underwriting small risks, you need to assess the client's needs and ensure"]},{"start":57.14,"end":59.38,"text":["that there are no gaps from the package policy."]},{"start":59.38,"end":62.78,"text":["So you have to find a package that's the most suitable."]},{"start":62.78,"end":67.5,"text":["When it comes to package policies, premiums are very easy to determine, coverage is typically"]},{"start":67.5,"end":70.86,"text":["brought and adequate enough for most risks."]},{"start":70.86,"end":75.5,"text":["The downside to utilizing package policies is that it lacks standardization."]},{"start":75.5,"end":80.22,"text":["So for example, if you're looking to insure a trades and contractor, there might be a package"]},{"start":80.22,"end":84.78,"text":["policy that's available for them, which includes liability coverage and includes their"]},{"start":84.78,"end":86.02,"text":["property coverage."]},{"start":86.02,"end":90.34,"text":["It includes equipment floaters for property that they take from site to site and neatly"]},{"start":90.34,"end":92.38,"text":["bundle together into a package."]},{"start":92.38,"end":96.38,"text":["The problem is the terms and conditions of the package policy you get from insurance"]},{"start":96.38,"end":100.18,"text":["company A might be different than the one you get from insurance company B."]},{"start":100.18,"end":102.46,"text":["So you just have to be very careful."]},{"start":102.46,"end":107.22,"text":["You cannot just swap a package policy from insurance company A, replace it with one from insurance"]},{"start":107.22,"end":109.38,"text":["company B and sort of assume that the same."]},{"start":110.86,"end":114.3,"text":["When it comes to large risks, those are typically more complex."]},{"start":114.3,"end":119.02,"text":["And so we would individually write the policies and put it together into a package manually."]},{"start":119.02,"end":122.34,"text":["So you might get liability insurance from one place."]},{"start":122.34,"end":126.46,"text":["You might get some manufacturers, errors and omissions policy from another place."]},{"start":126.46,"end":131.42,"text":["And their commercial property from one place and their commercial property floater from another"]},{"start":131.42,"end":135.1,"text":["place and put together a custom package for the insured."]},{"start":140.78,"end":144.46,"text":["With commercial property insurance, there's two policy forms you can choose from."]},{"start":144.46,"end":148.06,"text":["You can get name perils or you can get broad form."]},{"start":148.06,"end":151.42,"text":["With name perils, it covers only the perils listed."]},{"start":151.42,"end":155.34,"text":["A really good acronym I have to remember this is FSWILLER. F"]},{"start":155.34,"end":156.94,"text":["stands for fire."]},{"start":156.94,"end":161.82,"text":["S stands for smoke damage due to the sudden and faulty operation of a stationary furnace."]},{"start":161.82,"end":165.42,"text":["So that means not smoke coming from a heating or cooking device."]},{"start":165.42,"end":167.9,"text":["W stands for wind storm and hail."]},{"start":167.9,"end":169.58,"text":["I stands for impact by vehicles."]},{"start":170.54,"end":173.82,"text":["L stands for lightning, including lightning damage to electrical devices."]},{"start":174.22,"end":177.26,"text":["The other L stands were leakage from fire protective equipment."]},{"start":177.98,"end":183.5,"text":["E stands for explosion of natural coal or manufactured gas, as well as boilers and pressure vessels,"]},{"start":183.82,"end":186.7,"text":["as long as they're under less than 15 psi of pressure."]},{"start":187.34,"end":189.5,"text":["And our stands for riot or malicious acts."]},{"start":190.7,"end":194.14,"text":["The second policy form you can choose from is broad form."]},{"start":194.14,"end":198.7,"text":["This one ensures all risks not specifically excluded by the policy."]},{"start":198.7,"end":201.339,"text":["So the broader coverage is therefore more expensive."]},{"start":201.899,"end":206.22,"text":["So for example, it covers things like vehicle impact caused by the insured's employees."]},{"start":207.1,"end":210.7,"text":["After attempted theft, including property damage caused by theft."]},{"start":211.5,"end":216.06,"text":["Water damage due to freezing or rupturing of pipes, but it still excludes flood,"]},{"start":216.06,"end":217.339,"text":["seepage, or sewer backup."]},{"start":218.54,"end":224.06,"text":["Collapse of building is also covered, except collapse due to earthquake or faulty or improper"]},{"start":224.22,"end":225.82,"text":["work, material or designs."]},{"start":226.62,"end":229.5,"text":["And the final coverage you get, which you don't get with name perils,"]},{"start":229.82,"end":232.22,"text":["is all sources of smoke damage."]},{"start":232.54,"end":237.5,"text":["However, it excludes smoke coming from industrial operations such as agricultural smudging."]},{"start":240.62,"end":244.3,"text":["So now let's talk about how they set prices for commercial property insurance."]},{"start":244.94,"end":248.78,"text":["The premiums they charge you are, of course, related to the coverage that you've chosen."]},{"start":249.5,"end":254.14,"text":["The total rate per hundred dollars is the rate they need to charge you to ensure at"]},{"start":254.14,"end":255.66,"text":["hundred dollars worth of your property."]},{"start":256.38,"end":260.06,"text":["The total rate is equal to your fire rate plus your loading."]},{"start":260.779,"end":266.06,"text":["Your loading is the amount you have to pay for coverage for additional perils on top of fire,"]},{"start":266.06,"end":267.1,"text":["lightning and explosion."]},{"start":268.06,"end":269.5,"text":["So let's talk about the fire rate."]},{"start":270.38,"end":274.78,"text":["The fire rate is the basic rate they need to charge you to ensure at hundred dollars worth of"]},{"start":274.78,"end":278.859,"text":["your property against the perils of fire, lightning and explosion."]},{"start":279.5,"end":282.14,"text":["There are five factors that affect your fire rate."]},{"start":282.78,"end":284.7,"text":["The first factor is building construction."]},{"start":285.26,"end":290.94,"text":["A concrete building is cheaper to ensure than a wood frame building because it's more resistant to fire."]},{"start":291.82,"end":296.78,"text":["They will also look at your claims history, both the claims history for your type of business"]},{"start":296.78,"end":299.739,"text":["and the claims history of the applicant himself or herself."]},{"start":300.059,"end":301.82,"text":["It will look at your last five years."]},{"start":302.78,"end":305.099,"text":["The third factor is protection against fire."]},{"start":305.659,"end":307.9,"text":["There's two types of protection they look at."]},{"start":307.9,"end":309.9,"text":["Public protection and private protection."]},{"start":311.18,"end":314.14,"text":["Public protection means protection from outside sources."]},{"start":314.54,"end":318.14,"text":["For example, they would look at things like your distance from a fire hydrant or fire hall."]},{"start":318.7,"end":323.18,"text":["The accessibility of your premises and whether you have water supply you around."]},{"start":324.219,"end":328.06,"text":["With private protection, that's protection installed by the applicant."]},{"start":328.3,"end":332.14,"text":["You would get a discount if you have things like sprinklers or alarms installed."]},{"start":333.42,"end":335.74,"text":["The next thing they look at is occupancy."]},{"start":335.74,"end":340.06,"text":["This is the type of business that's done by the insured as well as others nearby."]},{"start":341.02,"end":343.42,"text":["And finally, it will look at your location."]},{"start":343.42,"end":348.14,"text":["This means your area, distance from other buildings and the characteristics of the other buildings."]},{"start":348.78,"end":353.42,"text":["For example, are you in a high crime area and what's the construction and occupancy of other buildings?"]},{"start":354.38,"end":359.98,"text":["So your total rate multiplied by your building value is how they calculate your final premium."]},{"start":363.98,"end":369.5,"text":["So now let's talk about some clauses that are commonly found in most commercial property policies."]},{"start":370.22,"end":374.38,"text":["The first and probably the most important one is a description of the property insured."]},{"start":375.58,"end":380.06,"text":["So like we talked about earlier, there are three classes of commercial property. You have buildings,"]},{"start":380.86,"end":382.06,"text":["stock and equipment."]},{"start":383.42,"end":388.22,"text":["When it comes to buildings, real definition is the building that's described on the declaration page."]},{"start":388.22,"end":390.22,"text":["So there's usually going to be an address on there."]},{"start":391.02,"end":395.9,"text":["And that includes, of course, the building itself, but also any fixed structures that are related"]},{"start":395.9,"end":399.74,"text":["to the building. So like metal fences, signs, bike stands."]},{"start":400.7,"end":406.46,"text":["Also any permanent fixtures to the building, like air conditioning units, carpets, light fixtures, bathroom fixtures."]},{"start":407.5,"end":411.42,"text":["Additions and extensions that are connected to the building. So walkways and canopies."]},{"start":412.22,"end":416.7,"text":["Also any materials and equipment on the premises for maintenance or for normal repairs."]},{"start":417.42,"end":421.5,"text":["And finally, decorative indoor clients. So when you think about the building,"]},{"start":422.22,"end":424.46,"text":["think about if you have turned it upside down and shook it,"]},{"start":425.1,"end":428.3,"text":["everything that stays attached is considered part of the building."]},{"start":429.5,"end":434.46,"text":["So when you buy a piece of real estate, what do you actually buy? You buy the building, you buy the air"]},{"start":434.46,"end":439.5,"text":["conditioning units attached to it, you buy all these other things. So that's a nice, easy way to think"]},{"start":439.58,"end":445.66,"text":["about the definition of building. Next is stock. So stock is defined as any merchandise that is usual"]},{"start":445.66,"end":451.5,"text":["to the business. So what is normally sold by that type of business? There's no standard definition."]},{"start":451.5,"end":456.62,"text":["It just depends on the type of business you operate. So if you operate it a convenience store,"]},{"start":456.62,"end":460.78,"text":["the definition of stock would include everything that is typically sold in a convenience store."]},{"start":461.34,"end":466.62,"text":["So if you had things like paint, power tools, those might not be included because they're not typically"]},{"start":466.7,"end":473.58,"text":["sold in a convenience store. Aside from the merchandise, it also includes any packaging or advertising"]},{"start":473.58,"end":479.66,"text":["material, like catalogues, boxes, grocery bags, takeaway containers because those are all parts of the"]},{"start":479.66,"end":485.66,"text":["things that you sell, right? So they consider them stock. Also any similar property of others that's"]},{"start":485.66,"end":491.74,"text":["in the care of the insured, where the insured is legally liable or required to ensure them by contract."]},{"start":491.82,"end":497.02,"text":["For example, you're a bailee. So if you sold clothing items, but you also repaired or altered"]},{"start":497.02,"end":502.62,"text":["clothing items, then the clothes that people give to you to repair or alter would also be considered"]},{"start":502.62,"end":508.22,"text":["stock because this part of the stuff that you sell conceptually. The rates and premiums that you"]},{"start":508.22,"end":514.22,"text":["pay for stock coverage will depend on the nature of the stock. If you are insuring stock that is"]},{"start":514.22,"end":521.02,"text":["perishable or easily damaged or highly valuable, your rates and premiums on that might be higher."]},{"start":521.82,"end":526.78,"text":["Stock is typically covered for actual cash value and the stock limits can often fluctuate"]},{"start":526.78,"end":531.82,"text":["annually. If it does, you might get something called a peak season endorsement. What that does is"]},{"start":531.82,"end":537.02,"text":["it automatically adjusts the limit for months where inventory is higher or lower. For example,"]},{"start":537.02,"end":542.7,"text":["if you run a toy store, you might anticipate having higher inventory in October and November,"]},{"start":542.7,"end":547.42,"text":["leading up to Christmas. So you would purchase what's called a peak season endorsement"]},{"start":547.42,"end":551.339,"text":["to allow your inventory to limit to increase during those peak times."]},{"start":553.099,"end":558.38,"text":["And the third and final definition we'll discuss here is equipment. Similar to stock,"]},{"start":558.38,"end":564.86,"text":["equipment just includes any content usual to the business. So kind of furnishings, machinery,"]},{"start":564.86,"end":572.14,"text":["utensils, tools, etc. are typically used in your type of business. If you operate a restaurant,"]},{"start":572.14,"end":576.939,"text":["the types of things that would be insured would be very different than if you operated a dental"]},{"start":577.42,"end":582.86,"text":["office. It also includes any similar property of others. So for example, if you have any photocopiers,"]},{"start":582.86,"end":588.94,"text":["forklifts, just depending on what's similar to your business. If you run in insurance"]},{"start":588.94,"end":594.38,"text":["office and you lease a photocopier, then that photocopier technically belongs to somebody else,"]},{"start":595.1,"end":599.18,"text":["but it's similar to what you would typically have in your business, therefore it would be covered"]},{"start":599.18,"end":605.74,"text":["under your equipment limit. Also insured under equipment are any tenant improvements. So these"]},{"start":605.82,"end":610.62,"text":["are any improvements or renovations or modifications that are done at the expense of the tenant,"]},{"start":610.62,"end":616.62,"text":["meaning the tenant pays for it and stays once they leave so it's fixed. All of this type of property,"]},{"start":616.62,"end":621.66,"text":["whether it's building stock or equipment can be covered on an actual cash value or replacement"]},{"start":621.66,"end":631.18,"text":["cost basis. It's up to the insured to choose. Another really important clause in most commercial"]},{"start":631.18,"end":636.859,"text":["policies is the co-insurance clause. The co-insurance clause basically states that you must purchase"]},{"start":636.859,"end":642.859,"text":["a minimum limit of insurance based on a percentage of the actual insured values. And this applies"]},{"start":642.859,"end":647.5,"text":["to each of the three types of property we just discussed separately. So you need to meet the"]},{"start":647.5,"end":652.859,"text":["minimum limit for the building for the equipment and for the stock separately. There's also an"]},{"start":652.859,"end":658.06,"text":["important concept called the waiver of co-insurance. This states that co-insurance only applies to"]},{"start":658.14,"end":664.06,"text":["partial losses that are greater than or equal to 2% of your amount of insurance or limit or"]},{"start":664.06,"end":670.3,"text":["5,000 dollars. So if the insured experiences a total loss, which means a loss greater than the"]},{"start":670.3,"end":676.06,"text":["policy limit, or the loss is less than 2% of the policy limit or less than 5,000 dollars,"]},{"start":676.06,"end":681.5,"text":["then there is no need to apply the co-insurance formula when calculating the payout. The insured"]},{"start":681.5,"end":687.02,"text":["would just get the value of the loss up to the policy limit. So when you're looking at a co-insurance"]},{"start":687.98,"end":693.1,"text":["question, you have to first decide whether the co-insurance waiver applies. If it does apply,"]},{"start":693.1,"end":698.3,"text":["then you do not need to apply the formula. If it does apply, then you need to apply the formula."]},{"start":699.1,"end":704.22,"text":["So here's an example of a small loss, but one where the waiver still applies. So let's say you have"]},{"start":704.22,"end":710.3,"text":["a person named David. He's the insured. He experiences a $15,000 loss on $1 million worth of"]},{"start":710.3,"end":716.46,"text":["property. Since 2% of $1 million is $20,000, and the loss is less than this threshold,"]},{"start":716.46,"end":721.58,"text":["but it's still greater than $5,000. In that case, the co-insurance penalty still applies."]},{"start":722.14,"end":727.1,"text":["So his payout would be penalized based on the co-insurance formula, subject to policy limits,"]},{"start":727.1,"end":732.14,"text":["and deductibles. Another scenario where the waiver would apply is a total loss."]},{"start":732.86,"end":738.86,"text":["Where a fired destroys the entire warehouse, resulting in a total loss of $1.2 million,"]},{"start":738.86,"end":743.42,"text":["since the loss exceeds the policy limit of a million dollars, co-insurance does not apply."]},{"start":743.42,"end":748.06,"text":["They would simply get their million dollar payout. In the event of a loss,"]},{"start":748.06,"end":753.5,"text":["and the juicer would apply the co-insurance clause. They would first look at the actual value of the property."]},{"start":754.3,"end":758.699,"text":["They would look at the amount of loss and the limit purchased, the co-insurance percentage,"]},{"start":759.5,"end":764.62,"text":["and then the amount of settlement would be penalized if they do not meet the co-insurance requirement."]},{"start":765.26,"end":770.699,"text":["So the settlement formula would be the settlement is equal to the amount of insurance they did buy,"]},{"start":771.34,"end":775.26,"text":["divided by the amount of insurance they should have bought if they were compliant with the co-insurance"]},{"start":775.26,"end":781.42,"text":["requirement multiplied by their loss amount. We'll run through a couple examples of this,"]},{"start":781.42,"end":786.06,"text":["and you'll be able to see how this clause applies to penalize their actual payout."]},{"start":787.58,"end":793.18,"text":["So let's use an example to really drive this home. So if the insured has that $1 million worth of"]},{"start":793.18,"end":799.42,"text":["property, and the insured sets a co-insurance requirement of 80% the insured must purchase a limit"]},{"start":799.5,"end":806.699,"text":["of at least $800,000. If the insured only purchases $400,000 of insurance,"]},{"start":806.699,"end":813.18,"text":["a co-insurance penalty may apply to reduce the amount of settlement. So the calculation is as follows"]},{"start":813.18,"end":820.219,"text":["on a $100,000 loss. So first let's look at the $100,000. Is it a total loss? No, it is not."]},{"start":820.78,"end":827.26,"text":["Is it greater than the lesser of 2% amount of insurance or 5,000? Yes, it is. That means the co-insurance"]},{"start":827.26,"end":834.06,"text":["clause will apply. So because he didn't purchase as much insurance as he should have, he would be penalized."]},{"start":834.06,"end":839.58,"text":["His settlement would be equal to the amount of insured insured did by, so $400,000 divided by the"]},{"start":839.58,"end":846.54,"text":["amount he should have bought, $800,000 times the $100,000 loss amount. So in the end, he would only"]},{"start":846.54,"end":852.62,"text":["get $50,000. The rationale here is he bought half the insurance should have bought, so he gets"]},{"start":852.7,"end":859.66,"text":["half the payment he should have gotten. There's also a concept called the stated amount of co-insurance,"]},{"start":859.66,"end":865.34,"text":["which is an alternative to the classic co-insurance clause. With this, the insured files what's"]},{"start":865.34,"end":870.46,"text":["called a statement of values at the start of the policy and maintains and updates that statement"]},{"start":870.46,"end":876.38,"text":["of value spreadsheet throughout the policy term. If the limits are reduced such that they are lower"]},{"start":876.38,"end":881.18,"text":["than the statement of values, then the policy reverts to the original co-insurance percentage"]},{"start":881.18,"end":887.819,"text":["or a hundred percent co-insurance. Essentially, the stated amount of co-insurance"]},{"start":887.819,"end":894.14,"text":["clause is a way for people with a lot of property to consistently maintain their limits such that"]},{"start":894.14,"end":899.739,"text":["they're never inadvertently in violation of the co-insurance clause because of inflation or other"]},{"start":899.739,"end":904.219,"text":["cost factors that are outside of their control. They just keep it up to date and they're always"]},{"start":904.219,"end":910.62,"text":["insured at full value and never subject to a co-insurance penalty."]},{"start":911.66,"end":916.06,"text":["Now let's talk about the subrogation clause. The subrogation clause allows the insurance"]},{"start":916.06,"end":920.3,"text":["company to sue the responsible party to recover any claims that they've paid to the insured."]},{"start":921.02,"end":925.42,"text":["However, they will not subrogate against fellow insurers. So let's say for example,"]},{"start":925.42,"end":929.739,"text":["you're cooking at home and you accidentally burn down your house. The insurance company would pay"]},{"start":929.739,"end":935.5,"text":["for your house, but they will not subrogate meaning they will not come back and sue you. However,"]},{"start":935.5,"end":940.06,"text":["I was at your house and I was cooking out being careless and I burned your house down. The insurance"]},{"start":940.14,"end":944.3,"text":["company would pay for your house and then they might come back and sue me if I was at fault."]},{"start":945.819,"end":950.78,"text":["If the net amount recovered in the lawsuit after costs have been paid, is not enough to fully"]},{"start":950.78,"end":956.219,"text":["cover the loss. The amount is divided between the insurance company and the insured based on the"]},{"start":956.219,"end":962.3,"text":["percentage of loss borne. The insured also cannot release anyone of liability. The insurance"]},{"start":962.3,"end":967.18,"text":["company will still sue that person. So let's say for example, I was at your house. I was cooking"]},{"start":967.18,"end":971.739,"text":["out being a little bit careless. I burned down the house. You can't just say, hey Jack, don't worry"]},{"start":971.739,"end":976.06,"text":["about it. We're not going to sue you. You cannot do that. The insurance company will still come"]},{"start":976.06,"end":981.579,"text":["and try to sue me and subrogate against me. The second clause is the reinstatement clause."]},{"start":982.219,"end":987.739,"text":["This basically states that the original amount of insurance is reinstated after the loss has been paid."]},{"start":988.38,"end":992.78,"text":["So that means if you had $100,000 limit purchased in January, you had $5,000"]},{"start":992.78,"end":997.42,"text":["loss in February. As soon as that losses paid, you still have $100,000."]},{"start":997.42,"end":1003.819,"text":["It doesn't go down to ninety five. Next we have to debris removal. So the insurance company"]},{"start":1003.819,"end":1008.62,"text":["will use the remainder of the limit, whatever's left after rebuilding or replacing your property"]},{"start":1008.62,"end":1014.22,"text":["to pay for the removal of debris. And finally, we have property protection systems. So you would"]},{"start":1014.22,"end":1018.54,"text":["be able to get discounts on your premium. If you have alarms, sprinklers, and other protection"]},{"start":1018.54,"end":1024.379,"text":["systems installed, if you do install these systems and you do claim that discount, there are some"]},{"start":1024.379,"end":1029.42,"text":["conditions. The insured must notify the insurance company immediately of any known"]},{"start":1029.42,"end":1034.46,"text":["interruption or defect in the protection system, as well as of any cancellation of monitoring or"]},{"start":1034.46,"end":1040.619,"text":["maintenance contracts or police services. If conditions are breached, three things can happen."]},{"start":1040.619,"end":1044.619,"text":["The insurance company can reduce your coverage. For example, they can eliminate theft coverage"]},{"start":1044.699,"end":1049.659,"text":["until the system is repaired. They can charge an additional premium because now you're higher risk,"]},{"start":1049.659,"end":1054.62,"text":["or they can cancel your policy if the breach was intentional. This is because some businesses"]},{"start":1054.62,"end":1059.739,"text":["require protection before they become insurable. Examples include jewellery stores or banks."]},{"start":1062.54,"end":1067.58,"text":["Now let's talk about some other commercial property forms. The first one I want to talk about"]},{"start":1067.58,"end":1072.54,"text":["is property away from the insured premises. If you remember with the regular commercial property"]},{"start":1073.18,"end":1078.22,"text":["the property must be on premises before it's covered. So with this one you will have coverage"]},{"start":1078.22,"end":1084.3,"text":["for property wealth in transit or at a temporary location as long as it's within Canada and US."]},{"start":1085.74,"end":1089.82,"text":["So if it's in transit there might be a condition that stipulates that the property be locked"]},{"start":1089.82,"end":1095.1,"text":["in the vehicle from start to end, including any incidental stops. There might also be something"]},{"start":1095.1,"end":1100.22,"text":["called a locked vehicle warranty that is applied. It's commonly used if your property is"]},{"start":1100.22,"end":1105.9,"text":["very susceptible to theft or very valuable. This requires that the property be stored in a fully"]},{"start":1105.9,"end":1111.82,"text":["enclosed metal compartment locked doors and windows and there must be visible signs of forced"]},{"start":1111.82,"end":1118.22,"text":["entry that was used to gain entry to the compartment and steal something. Common carriers are excluded"]},{"start":1118.22,"end":1122.38,"text":["from complying with this warranty. So if you're shipping some goods that require a locked vehicle"]},{"start":1122.38,"end":1127.18,"text":["warranty if it's in the custody of a common carrier like Canada Post, they don't need to follow"]},{"start":1127.18,"end":1132.38,"text":["this warranty because of course some of the Canada Post or DHL trucks don't even have doors."]},{"start":1133.82,"end":1138.22,"text":["A violation of the locked vehicle warranty if it applies will avoid all of your coverage."]},{"start":1140.06,"end":1145.42,"text":["For property at a temporary location it covers property that's in the care, custody, and control"]},{"start":1145.42,"end":1150.7,"text":["of a bailee for higher at a location that's not owned rented or controlled by the insured."]},{"start":1151.26,"end":1156.7,"text":["A bailee for hire is somebody who repairs goods, services them, stores them, or even at a"]},{"start":1156.7,"end":1163.02,"text":["carriers depot. The second coverage I want to talk about is glass insurance. This covers accidental"]},{"start":1163.02,"end":1170.38,"text":["damage to glass by anybody by earth movements or by thieves. It excludes losses caused by fire or"]},{"start":1170.38,"end":1175.9,"text":["nuclear hazard. Fire is excluded because it's covered elsewhere. War and nuclear hazard are excluded"]},{"start":1175.9,"end":1181.58,"text":["because they're excluded everywhere. And finally we have valuable papers and records. This covers"]},{"start":1181.659,"end":1187.1,"text":["the cost to recreate these valuable papers and records if they're stored properly when not in use."]},{"start":1188.3,"end":1193.74,"text":["The valuable papers means documents, records, drawings, books, maps, etc. It does not mean money or"]},{"start":1193.74,"end":1198.62,"text":["securities. And when I say stored properly I mean it must be stored in the described"]},{"start":1198.62,"end":1203.659,"text":["receptacle when not in use and while the premises is closed. That means you have to store it in a"]},{"start":1203.66,"end":1212.62,"text":["safe, a fireproof filing cabinet or something like that. In other very common and popular type of"]},{"start":1212.62,"end":1217.82,"text":["commercial property insurance is what's called mechanical breakdown insurance or formerly called"]},{"start":1217.82,"end":1223.66,"text":["boiler and machinery insurance. This covers the equipment breakdown of objects and objects"]},{"start":1223.66,"end":1229.26,"text":["meaning property that's owned, least operated or controlled by the insured. Aside from the actual"]},{"start":1229.34,"end":1234.3,"text":["breakdown of the objects themselves it also covers any building damage due to the explosion of"]},{"start":1234.3,"end":1241.1,"text":["boilers and press vessels and pressure vessels that are greater than 15 psi of pressure. As long"]},{"start":1241.1,"end":1247.02,"text":["as those vessels and boilers are controlled by the insured meaning their own least operated or"]},{"start":1247.02,"end":1252.379,"text":["controlled by the insured. So what is actually covered side from building damage? It also covers"]},{"start":1252.379,"end":1258.06,"text":["like mentioned the electrical and mechanical breakdown of the actual equipment itself. So some"]},{"start":1258.06,"end":1262.7,"text":["examples of equipment that could be covered are boilers, air conditioning units, pumps,"]},{"start":1262.7,"end":1267.899,"text":["and other types of machinery that you would typically find in a commercial property. It covers the"]},{"start":1267.899,"end":1272.86,"text":["breakdown of electrical or working mechanisms and some common losses you would see here are for"]},{"start":1272.86,"end":1279.659,"text":["things like bursting, cracking, arcing or general mechanical failure. Because it covers all property"]},{"start":1279.659,"end":1285.179,"text":["that's owned but also controlled by the insured it also covers property that's least and property"]},{"start":1285.18,"end":1289.9,"text":["not in storage. So if the property is stored away when you have a boiler in storage that's not"]},{"start":1289.9,"end":1296.06,"text":["being used it will not be covered under this mechanical breakdown insurance policy. There is a per"]},{"start":1296.06,"end":1301.82,"text":["occurrence limit that applies here and if you have replacement cost coverage it will repair or replace"]},{"start":1301.82,"end":1307.82,"text":["with materials of like kind and quality with a deductible that applies. What it does not cover"]},{"start":1307.82,"end":1313.74,"text":["is things like deterioration, corrosion, wear and tear or the functioning of a safety device."]},{"start":1314.38,"end":1319.58,"text":["So if a safety device causes loss that's not covered. Say for example a piece of equipment"]},{"start":1319.58,"end":1325.9,"text":["overheats the safety device triggers a coolant to be sprayed or fire extinguisher to be sprayed"]},{"start":1325.9,"end":1330.94,"text":["and damages the equipment that would not be covered because it's due to the functioning of a safety"]},{"start":1330.94,"end":1337.1,"text":["device. Typically when it comes to arranging the mechanical breakdown coverage the insurer will have"]},{"start":1337.1,"end":1343.26,"text":["the right to inspect the objects before and during the policy period. If they find a dangerous condition"]},{"start":1343.74,"end":1349.34,"text":["they can suspend the policy and reinstate once repairs have been conducted. You can also get"]},{"start":1349.34,"end":1354.14,"text":["optional coverage to add coverage under the mechanical breakdown insurance for things like production"]},{"start":1354.14,"end":1360.7,"text":["machinery, also indirect coverage like business interruption or consequential damage like spoilage."]},{"start":1360.7,"end":1366.46,"text":["For example if you had some frozen food stored in a industrial freezer and that broke down,"]},{"start":1367.1,"end":1372.06,"text":["yes the mechanical breakdown insurance would cover the freezer but you need consequential damage"]},{"start":1372.7,"end":1381.74,"text":["to cover the spoilage of the food inside. When it comes to contractors their business is a"]},{"start":1381.74,"end":1386.62,"text":["little bit different and so they need some different insurance policies. Typically when it comes to"]},{"start":1386.62,"end":1392.139,"text":["contractors insurance policies, their premium is based on annual revenues. So you would typically"]},{"start":1392.139,"end":1397.82,"text":["be charged a provisional premium at the inception of the policy but it can be adjusted at the completion"]},{"start":1397.82,"end":1404.06,"text":["of the policy or the expiry of the policy based on the receipts or the actual values. The first type"]},{"start":1404.06,"end":1409.82,"text":["of contractors insurance policy we're going to talk about is Builders Risk. Builders Risk can be"]},{"start":1409.82,"end":1414.3,"text":["arranged on a broad form or named peril spaces just like any other commercial property policy"]},{"start":1414.86,"end":1419.5,"text":["and it's typically bought by the building owner or general contractor to ensure buildings that are"]},{"start":1419.5,"end":1425.74,"text":["in the course of construction. What does a course of construction policy cover it covers any materials"]},{"start":1425.82,"end":1431.34,"text":["that's owned by the insured and will form part of the finished project? Any landscaping and temporary"]},{"start":1431.34,"end":1437.58,"text":["buildings but also of course the actual structure itself while it's being built. What it does not"]},{"start":1437.58,"end":1444.06,"text":["cover is any tools and equipment or the cost of making good any faulty materials, workmanship or"]},{"start":1444.06,"end":1450.14,"text":["design. However any result in damage is covered. For example if some poor workmanship causes the"]},{"start":1450.14,"end":1455.42,"text":["framing on a building to collapse the result in damage is covered but the cost of actually fixing"]},{"start":1455.42,"end":1462.06,"text":["that framing and redoing it so it's correct and strong is not covered. If you want coverage for tools"]},{"start":1462.06,"end":1467.42,"text":["and equipment you would purchase what's called a contractor's equipment floater which we'll discuss later."]},{"start":1468.22,"end":1473.26,"text":["When it comes to COCs or course of construction policies the limit of insurance is equal to the"]},{"start":1473.26,"end":1479.18,"text":["completed value of the construction. The policy period starts when the construction starts"]},{"start":1479.82,"end":1485.1,"text":["and ends when the building is occupied or left unattended for over 30 consecutive days."]},{"start":1486.3,"end":1491.9,"text":["The premium charge at the inception of the policy is based on the maximum value of any one"]},{"start":1491.9,"end":1500.06,"text":["project including materials and labour and the rates are arranged such that they are low at"]},{"start":1500.06,"end":1505.02,"text":["inception because the building is not really built there's not a lot of value in there. Like if it's only"]},{"start":1505.02,"end":1510.78,"text":["2% complete and something happens to it the insurance company isn't going to pay out the full policy"]},{"start":1510.94,"end":1515.1,"text":["limits only going to pay out 2% of the limit whatever it takes to get you back to that same spot."]},{"start":1515.82,"end":1520.139,"text":["However the rates would be then charged at full value at the completion of the policy."]},{"start":1520.139,"end":1524.86,"text":["So they've already taken into account when they give you the premium that the risk is going to be"]},{"start":1524.86,"end":1528.46,"text":["lower at the start and higher at the end because there's more stuff to rebuild."]},{"start":1529.18,"end":1534.3,"text":["So the provisional premium would apply here and you must report values at the stated times"]},{"start":1534.3,"end":1538.22,"text":["during the course of construction to make sure that you're progressing at the rate that you're"]},{"start":1538.22,"end":1543.1,"text":["supposed to and you're being charged accordingly. The premiums will be adjusted when the"]},{"start":1543.1,"end":1548.14,"text":["insured reports the actual completed value within 30 days of the completion of the build."]},{"start":1549.66,"end":1554.94,"text":["COC policies can be done on a per project basis so I have one project I get a COC on that."]},{"start":1554.94,"end":1560.78,"text":["I have project number 2, I get a COC on that or if I'm a general contractor and I do multiple"]},{"start":1560.78,"end":1566.22,"text":["construction projects concurrently per year, then I can also do them on a blanket basis"]},{"start":1566.22,"end":1569.18,"text":["which would then depend on the number of projects I have on the go at the time."]},{"start":1574.54,"end":1578.86,"text":["So what happens if a contractor has some equipment that they take to different job sites"]},{"start":1578.86,"end":1584.38,"text":["and they need to get insured? Because if you remember under a standard commercial property policy"]},{"start":1584.38,"end":1589.58,"text":["it only insures property or equipment that is on the insured premises. If you have tools,"]},{"start":1589.58,"end":1593.98,"text":["generators, things that you go from site to site, you would need to purchase what's called a"]},{"start":1593.98,"end":1599.74,"text":["contractor's equipment floater. This covers any movable equipment that's own rented or otherwise"]},{"start":1599.74,"end":1605.02,"text":["controlled by the insured so it could be things like back hose, loaders, power tools and various"]},{"start":1605.02,"end":1611.82,"text":["hand tools. Equipment can be insured on a scheduled or blanket basis, meaning I list and name out"]},{"start":1611.82,"end":1617.58,"text":["the specific items that I want insured or I just insure a blanket limit say I have $150,000"]},{"start":1617.58,"end":1624.46,"text":["with a equipment I just insure all my equipment on a blanket basis for $150,000 limit. This usually"]},{"start":1624.46,"end":1629.1,"text":["contains a 30-day reporting requirement so if I buy some new equipment I have to report it to the"]},{"start":1629.1,"end":1635.179,"text":["insurance company within 30 days. The equipment floater offers some pretty comprehensive coverage"]},{"start":1635.179,"end":1639.98,"text":["you can get it on a broad form or name pair of spaces but it will include things like mechanical"]},{"start":1639.98,"end":1645.5,"text":["or electrical breakdown and the losses caused by extremes in temperature, rust or corrosion,"]},{"start":1645.5,"end":1652.46,"text":["or when you exceed the load limit on certain equipment. Another really popular one used by contractors"]},{"start":1652.46,"end":1658.46,"text":["is the installation floater. This is typically used for specialized contractors that do installations."]},{"start":1659.1,"end":1664.62,"text":["So it will cover your property while it's intrinsic to the job site at the job site awaiting installation"]},{"start":1664.62,"end":1669.1,"text":["and during installation until it's been accepted or the insurance interest has ceased,"]},{"start":1669.1,"end":1674.78,"text":["meaning that the general contractor has assumed control. So if you think about it, if I am a"]},{"start":1674.78,"end":1681.58,"text":["contractor responsible for installing glass into a skyscraper when I get the job think about what"]},{"start":1681.58,"end":1687.58,"text":["happens. So I get the call, I've won this job. The first thing I do is order the glass that I need."]},{"start":1687.58,"end":1692.78,"text":["So I go to the glass supplier I pick it up and I drive it to the job site. So while it is"]},{"start":1692.78,"end":1699.1,"text":["intrinsic to the job site that glass is covered. Now I start working on the project. I install some"]},{"start":1699.1,"end":1703.66,"text":["of it but some of it is still at the job site awaiting installation into the building."]},{"start":1704.62,"end":1707.98,"text":["So that property while it's awaiting installation at the building maybe I have a stack of glass"]},{"start":1707.98,"end":1713.66,"text":["panels. That stuff is covered by the installation floater. And same thing if I have some of the glass"]},{"start":1713.66,"end":1717.9,"text":["that's in the building. If something were to happen to it, I would be responsible for installing it"]},{"start":1717.9,"end":1724.38,"text":["again because the general contractor hasn't signed off on the job. Right? So any property that is in the"]},{"start":1724.38,"end":1729.34,"text":["building during installation until it's accepted by the person who hired me is still covered"]},{"start":1729.419,"end":1734.939,"text":["by the installation floater. So once I have all the panels installed the general contractor has checked"]},{"start":1734.939,"end":1741.26,"text":["my work signed off on it says I'm done and I'm ready to be paid then my insured interest has ceased."]},{"start":1741.26,"end":1746.06,"text":["Because that at that point it becomes covered by the course of construction policy. And if"]},{"start":1746.06,"end":1750.86,"text":["it's something where to happen to it like a fire or earthquake they would have to pay me again a second"]},{"start":1750.86,"end":1757.58,"text":["time to do the job. So the installation floater offers pretty comprehensive coverage from start to finish."]},{"start":1758.139,"end":1761.899,"text":["But what it does exclude is any tools and equipment because as insured elsewhere,"]},{"start":1762.46,"end":1768.62,"text":["as well as the cost of making good any improper or faulty material, workmanship or design."]},{"start":1768.62,"end":1775.659,"text":["Same as before. And finally another really handy coverage for contractors is similar to the"]},{"start":1775.659,"end":1780.699,"text":["equipment floater. It's the tool floater. So instead of covering equipment it covers tools that"]},{"start":1780.699,"end":1786.86,"text":["are used off premises on an actual cash value basis. You can also get optional coverage for losses"]},{"start":1786.939,"end":1791.34,"text":["caused by artificial electricity like a power surge as well as mysterious disappearance."]},{"start":1792.06,"end":1796.78,"text":["And all of these tools can be covered on a scheduled or blanket basis. The mysterious"]},{"start":1796.78,"end":1801.34,"text":["disappearance class is really important and something you should be pushing onto every insured"]},{"start":1801.34,"end":1806.139,"text":["because it's very common for tools to mysteriously disappear from construction sites."]},{"start":1806.139,"end":1811.5,"text":["Whether you've lost it, someone stole it, whatever the reason is, it happens often and is a"]},{"start":1811.5,"end":1818.46,"text":["coverage that you should discuss with your clients. So let's use a story to illustrate these three"]},{"start":1818.46,"end":1823.9,"text":["types of coverages. So let's say I'm a glass installer that was contracted to go in,"]},{"start":1823.9,"end":1829.58,"text":["solve a bunch of glass into a condo development. As soon as I get the job, what do I do first?"]},{"start":1829.98,"end":1835.98,"text":["I call the glass supplier and I order a bunch of glass. When that's ready, I'll tape my truck,"]},{"start":1835.98,"end":1841.26,"text":["I'll go over there and pick it up. Then I'll drive it to the job site. So while it's in transit to"]},{"start":1841.26,"end":1847.1,"text":["the job site, that glass is covered. Then I start installing the glass. Of course, I wouldn't be able"]},{"start":1847.1,"end":1851.98,"text":["to do it all in one day. So I have a stack of glass waiting at the job site, awaiting installation."]},{"start":1851.98,"end":1858.14,"text":["That glass is covered. Also, any glass that I've already put in is also covered until the work"]},{"start":1858.14,"end":1863.74,"text":["has been accepted by the general contractor or the general contractor takes over, pays me for my work"]},{"start":1863.74,"end":1869.02,"text":["and tells me to lead. At that point, the glass would be insured under Builders Risk and no longer"]},{"start":1869.02,"end":1874.3,"text":["covered under the installation floater. This is because my insurable interest has ceased. I've"]},{"start":1874.3,"end":1881.18,"text":["been paid. My job is done. This floater excludes tools and equipment or the cost of making good"]},{"start":1881.18,"end":1889.82,"text":["improper or faulty materials, workmanship or design. Now let's talk about crime insurance. You"]},{"start":1889.82,"end":1895.98,"text":["generally have three types of crime insurance. You have burglary, robbery, and theft. If you remember"]},{"start":1896.06,"end":1901.34,"text":["the commercial property brought form only has coverage for riot and vandalism, that's why you"]},{"start":1901.34,"end":1907.26,"text":["need to buy separate crime insurance policies. So the first one is burglary and there's two kinds"]},{"start":1907.26,"end":1913.02,"text":["of burglary insurance. You have mercantile burglary and safe burglary. So mercantile stock burglary"]},{"start":1913.02,"end":1918.38,"text":["covers theft from enclosed premises. If visible signs of force was used to enter and to steal."]},{"start":1919.18,"end":1925.74,"text":["This includes damaged other property during the burglary. The safe burglary coverage covers"]},{"start":1925.82,"end":1930.78,"text":["theft of valuable property from a safe if force was used to enter the safe or to remove it from"]},{"start":1930.78,"end":1937.02,"text":["the premises. Also included is coverage for incidental damage. So if they're dragging the safe"]},{"start":1937.02,"end":1942.62,"text":["down the stairs and they damage the stairs, the stairs would be covered. Next you have robbery"]},{"start":1942.62,"end":1949.02,"text":["insurance. Robbery insurance covers the robbery of money, securities or valuable property when it's"]},{"start":1949.02,"end":1954.06,"text":["been taken by actual or threatened force to a custodian. A custodian meeting someone who is"]},{"start":1954.139,"end":1959.659,"text":["allowed to have custody of the property, a custodian witness property being taken or the property"]},{"start":1959.659,"end":1964.94,"text":["was taken from the custodian that was killed or rendered unconscious. They suitably with the"]},{"start":1964.94,"end":1971.74,"text":["burglary coverage, it requires signs of force and nobody saw. Think about cap robbery. In and out,"]},{"start":1971.74,"end":1977.34,"text":["nobody saw. Robbery involves a person, either you took it from a person or someone saw you take"]},{"start":1977.34,"end":1983.179,"text":["something. And finally we have theft. The theft means taking without the owners consent."]},{"start":1984.06,"end":1988.46,"text":["So as you might have noticed, it's the broadest definition. It doesn't have those restrictions"]},{"start":1988.46,"end":1993.82,"text":["that burglary and robbery insurance had. So the broad form will actually cover you for theft of"]},{"start":1993.82,"end":2000.22,"text":["stock and equipment. However, theft of money and securities must be added. So the money and"]},{"start":2000.22,"end":2004.22,"text":["securities policy will cover actual destruction caused by fire. For example,"]},{"start":2004.94,"end":2009.34,"text":["disappearance, meaning disappearance not attributable to theft. It's gone, you have no idea why."]},{"start":2010.06,"end":2015.34,"text":["And finally, wrongful abstraction. Wrongful abstraction means any unlawful taking of money and"]},{"start":2015.34,"end":2023.34,"text":["securities. Another common and very important type of commercial property insurance is business"]},{"start":2023.34,"end":2028.22,"text":["interruption insurance. This restores lost income to your business if it's damaged by an"]},{"start":2028.22,"end":2033.98,"text":["insured peril and you're not able to operate or earn as much as you would have had that insured"]},{"start":2034.06,"end":2039.66,"text":["peril not occur. So because business interruption policies are typically attached to a property"]},{"start":2039.66,"end":2045.1,"text":["insurance policy, the insured perils on the property insurance policy are the same as on the business"]},{"start":2045.1,"end":2050.06,"text":["interruption policy. So if your regular commercial property insurance does not cover earthquake,"]},{"start":2050.06,"end":2053.659,"text":["you would not have coverage for business disruption caused by earthquake."]},{"start":2054.94,"end":2060.06,"text":["Covered for business interruption typically starts from the date of loss up to 12 months. So that"]},{"start":2060.06,"end":2065.259,"text":["means it can pay you even past the policy period. For example, if your policy comes up in one month"]},{"start":2065.9,"end":2071.659,"text":["and you have a loss, it will cover you for 12 months even after your policy expired. So even"]},{"start":2071.659,"end":2076.699,"text":["if you choose not to renew, you will still have that business interruption coverage from that insurance"]},{"start":2076.699,"end":2082.299,"text":["company. It pays for loss net profits plus expenses that continue during the business"]},{"start":2082.299,"end":2086.94,"text":["interruption. So for example, even if your business is not operating, you might still be"]},{"start":2086.94,"end":2092.46,"text":["responsible for paying certain salaries, taxes, mortgage payment, rent, things like that."]},{"start":2093.5,"end":2098.62,"text":["In addition, it will also cover any expenses that are necessary if you can prove that it will"]},{"start":2098.62,"end":2103.74,"text":["reduce the amount of loss. So say for example, if you can open up a trailer outside of a"]},{"start":2103.74,"end":2109.98,"text":["your restaurant and still serve food and earn some income that reduces the amount of loss revenue,"]},{"start":2109.98,"end":2115.82,"text":["the insurance company will pay for that. So there's three different types of business"]},{"start":2116.14,"end":2121.5,"text":["interruptions insurance. The first is the gross earnings form. This will pay you the loss income"]},{"start":2121.5,"end":2128.7,"text":["until your property has been repaired or 12 months whichever comes first. The second is the profits"]},{"start":2128.7,"end":2134.06,"text":["form. This one offers a little bit more coverage because it pays you until your income has been restored"]},{"start":2134.06,"end":2139.66,"text":["or 12 months because the amount of time it takes for you to achieve or to recover the same amount"]},{"start":2139.66,"end":2145.26,"text":["of monthly income could be longer than what it would take to simply rebuild your property."]},{"start":2145.34,"end":2150.54,"text":["For example, if you run a business like a newspaper or a dry cleaners, by being out of business"]},{"start":2150.54,"end":2155.34,"text":["for a couple months, you might actually lose long-term customers. And so the profits form will"]},{"start":2155.34,"end":2160.06,"text":["give you coverage for more time so you can re-acquire those customers and get back to your"]},{"start":2160.06,"end":2165.18,"text":["same level of profit or revenue. So typically because they're offering more coverage, the profits"]},{"start":2165.18,"end":2170.46,"text":["form is more expensive than the gross earnings form. Which one you choose for your client depends on the"]},{"start":2170.46,"end":2174.86,"text":["type of business and whether they have the potential for losing revenue in the long term"]},{"start":2174.86,"end":2180.3,"text":["because of an interruption. If they're able to recover their property or restore their property"]},{"start":2180.3,"end":2184.78,"text":["and customers come back from day one, then perhaps the gross earnings form is sufficient for"]},{"start":2184.78,"end":2190.54,"text":["that type of business. The third type is the extra expenses insurance. This does not pay for"]},{"start":2190.54,"end":2195.66,"text":["lost income per se. What it does is it pays for any extra expenses that you need to maintain"]},{"start":2195.66,"end":2201.74,"text":["your normal course of business. So with this one, you do not need to prove that those expenses"]},{"start":2201.819,"end":2206.379,"text":["will reduce the amount of loss anymore. Because if you recall, under the regular business"]},{"start":2206.379,"end":2211.339,"text":["interruption insurance, they will pay for those extra expenses, but you have to prove it reduces the"]},{"start":2211.339,"end":2215.5,"text":["amount of loss. With the extra expenses endorsement, you no longer need to prove that."]},{"start":2216.779,"end":2222.22,"text":["This is purchased typically by those types of businesses that can resume business quickly after an"]},{"start":2222.22,"end":2228.779,"text":["interruption. So things like insurance brokers, travel agents, doctors, and even banks can recover"]},{"start":2228.86,"end":2233.74,"text":["their business pretty quickly. If you're a lawyer or an insurance broker, all you really need to do"]},{"start":2233.74,"end":2239.02,"text":["business these days is a laptop and maybe a phone. It's very easy for you to continue to operate"]},{"start":2239.02,"end":2245.82,"text":["your business and not actually have any lost revenue. Some examples of things that would cover"]},{"start":2245.82,"end":2250.62,"text":["could be renting a temporary premises, renting some temporary equipment so you can continue to"]},{"start":2250.62,"end":2255.58,"text":["operate or even paying overtime salaries for people to try to recover your business and rebuild"]},{"start":2255.66,"end":2260.86,"text":["this quickly as possible. So it can be purchased on a standalone basis for the types of businesses"]},{"start":2260.86,"end":2266.46,"text":["that don't really need full business interruption, but it can also be added on to a gross earnings"]},{"start":2266.46,"end":2273.18,"text":["form or a profits form. It's key to note that this is interruption is not a standalone policy."]},{"start":2273.18,"end":2279.66,"text":["It's added via endorsement to your regular commercial property insurance because the triggers or the"]},{"start":2279.66,"end":2283.74,"text":["perils that trigger it are the same."]}]},"language":"eng","alpha3_terminologic":"eng","alpha3_bibliographic":"eng","iso639_2_language_code":"en","english_name":"English","media_hashed_id":"npwtmvpvwi","native_name":"English","right_to_left":false,"generic_name":"English","generic_native_name":"English"}],"preferred_languages":["eng"]}