{"captions":[{"id":"myv0kobuhp4nv7t0","bcp47LanguageTag":"en","familyName":"English","familyNativeName":"English","hasCaptions":true,"hasVideoStream":true,"key":"wistia-production_myv0kobuhp4nv7t0","mediaHashedId":"6pn4evy428","name":"English","nativeName":"English","wistiaLanguageCode":"eng","hash":{"lines":[{"start":0.0,"end":12.0,"text":["If we want to understand legal liability, we first have to understand the legal system in"]},{"start":12.0,"end":18.8,"text":["Canada. So laws exist to establish a standard of conduct. Basically tells us when we can or cannot"]},{"start":18.8,"end":25.28,"text":["do. Within Canada, we have two main types of legal systems. We have criminal law and we have civil"]},{"start":25.52,"end":31.2,"text":["law also known as private law. So criminal law violations is something that is not insurable"]},{"start":31.76,"end":36.08,"text":["because criminal law addresses wrongs against society by punishing the wrongdoer,"]},{"start":36.08,"end":41.92,"text":["whether that's with fines, penalties, imprisonment, probation, all number of legal remedies."]},{"start":43.28,"end":49.52,"text":["The goal of criminal law is to determine guilt or innocence. Now let's get on to civil law."]},{"start":49.52,"end":54.64,"text":["So civil law addresses disputes between parties and the resolution is to compensate the wrong"]},{"start":54.8,"end":59.84,"text":["party somehow. This involves interpreting and developing common law principles and applying"]},{"start":59.84,"end":65.92,"text":["statute laws where relevant. Courts are only involved with the wrong party initiates an action against"]},{"start":65.92,"end":71.039,"text":["the wrongdoer. Meaning somebody has to sue somebody, say, for breach of contract for example."]},{"start":72.64,"end":78.32,"text":["When it comes to the application of civil law, this is based on either common law or statute law."]},{"start":79.039,"end":84.96,"text":["Common law is something based on precedence. Also known as the doctrine or rule of precedence."]},{"start":85.6,"end":90.559,"text":["This means that the courts will try to follow previous rulings in civil or cases to create a"]},{"start":90.559,"end":97.679,"text":["consistent standard of conduct. Precedence can be overturned and replaced with a newly established one"]},{"start":97.679,"end":103.759,"text":["because it may no longer be socially, legally or equitably applicable, meaning is no longer fair,"]},{"start":103.84,"end":111.2,"text":["given the current society. Besides common law or the rule of precedence, we also have statute law,"]},{"start":111.2,"end":115.84,"text":["which is written law. These are laws that are created by legislation through bills and are"]},{"start":115.84,"end":120.8,"text":["meant to regulate certain activities. Where there's a conflict between statute law and common law,"]},{"start":120.8,"end":131.12,"text":["statute law supersedes always. So rulings on civil law are based on either common law or statute."]},{"start":131.76,"end":137.92,"text":["Now within civil law, there are two branches. You have contract law, which governs contracts,"]},{"start":137.92,"end":145.68,"text":["and tort law, which governs torts. So contract laws are meant to enforce contracts."]},{"start":145.68,"end":150.72,"text":["Remedies for breach of contract are done by enforcing performance. For example, if I contract with"]},{"start":150.72,"end":155.44,"text":["you to build you a fence, you pay me the money. I don't build you a fence, you can go to court and"]},{"start":155.44,"end":159.28,"text":["sue me to either get me to return the money or to actually build the fence."]},{"start":159.76,"end":166.48,"text":["Next we have tort law. So tort is defined as a private wrong other than read your contract"]},{"start":166.48,"end":171.68,"text":["that causes damage to somebody, whether that's financial or otherwise. Examples of torts include"]},{"start":171.68,"end":177.04,"text":["negligence, trespass, nuisance, defamation, false arrest, or invasion of privacy."]},{"start":178.48,"end":183.2,"text":["When it comes to suing somebody in tort law and to actually prove a tort had occurred,"]},{"start":183.2,"end":189.2,"text":["there are three elements you need to prove. The first is you need to prove that that person"]},{"start":189.28,"end":195.04,"text":["owed you a legal duty, meaning you had a right not to be harmed and a duty not to cause harm to"]},{"start":195.04,"end":201.2,"text":["that person. The second element is that that legal duty was breached and the third element is that"]},{"start":201.2,"end":207.04,"text":["damages directly resulted from that breach of legal duty. So that means the damage must be a"]},{"start":207.04,"end":212.64,"text":["proximate result of the breach, meaning that there is an uninterrupted chain of events"]},{"start":212.72,"end":218.64,"text":["leading to the damage. You must prove all three of these elements for a torts to be proven."]},{"start":219.92,"end":224.799,"text":["Torts may also involve something called concurrent causation, where two different parties"]},{"start":224.799,"end":231.04,"text":["cause two independent events that combine together to produce one loss. For example,"]},{"start":231.04,"end":235.92,"text":["if a pedestrian is hit by a car at night, the driver may be liable for speeding, but the city"]},{"start":235.92,"end":240.48,"text":["may also be liable for failing to maintain a street light, making it too dark for the driver to"]},{"start":240.799,"end":249.04,"text":["see the pedestrian. Even within torts you have two types, you have intentional torts and unintentional"]},{"start":249.04,"end":255.359,"text":["torts. So an unintentional torts is something that is caused by carelessness you did not intend to do"]},{"start":255.359,"end":261.12,"text":["it. With unintentional torts, the wronged party is of course entitled to sue at-fault party,"]},{"start":261.12,"end":268.32,"text":["even though it wasn't intentional. The second are intentional torts. Of course, people can still"]},{"start":268.4,"end":274.24,"text":["sue for intentional torts, but intentional torts are not insurable. An intentional torts can"]},{"start":274.24,"end":280.0,"text":["occur if you took an action that a reasonable person would expect harm from. For example,"]},{"start":280.0,"end":283.92,"text":["if you are joking around with your friends and you accidentally push them into the pool and"]},{"start":283.92,"end":289.28,"text":["they hurt themselves, that is an intentional torts even if you didn't intend to hurt them because"]},{"start":289.28,"end":295.12,"text":["a reasonable person would expect harm to occur if you pushed somebody into a pool. There's also"]},{"start":295.2,"end":300.24,"text":["a concept that applies to your called strict liability. That is where a person is held automatically"]},{"start":300.24,"end":305.68,"text":["responsible if they are doing some kind of dangerous activity such as allowing the spread of an"]},{"start":305.68,"end":311.44,"text":["intentionally started fire or even if you're doing a reasonable act but in an unreasonable setting."]},{"start":312.034,"end":313.04,"text":["Tortfeasors is"]},{"start":313.04,"end":318.16,"text":["a key term here. That means somebody who commits a wrong against an innocent"]},{"start":318.16,"end":323.92,"text":["party so the defendant in this case. There can also be joint tortfeasors, where there's two or"]},{"start":323.92,"end":330.8,"text":["more people acting together to cause a tort. So in the case of tort, the onus of proof"]},{"start":330.8,"end":336.16,"text":["typically falls upon the plaintiff, meaning the person that is suing. But the onus can shift to"]},{"start":336.16,"end":341.6,"text":["the defendant if the following scenario is applied. So in examples of statutory liability."]},{"start":342.32,"end":348.24,"text":["In those cases, certain laws may presume that the defendant is liable, requiring them to show"]},{"start":348.24,"end":353.76,"text":["due diligence instead or in the scenario of strict liability. The relevant case law here"]},{"start":353.76,"end":360.16,"text":["is Rylands v. Fletcher. Under a strict liability scenario, the defendant is considered liable,"]},{"start":361.04,"end":366.56,"text":["even if there is no negligence or wrongful intent. And strict liability would typically apply"]},{"start":366.56,"end":370.88,"text":["when someone is doing something that's inherently dangerous. So for example, if you're sending"]},{"start":370.88,"end":376.32,"text":["off fireworks or you're intentionally setting a fire for some reason, maybe agricultural smudging"]},{"start":376.4,"end":382.0,"text":["or forestry sort of purposes, you are considered liable automatically even if you're not"]},{"start":382.0,"end":387.04,"text":["negligent or have any wrongful intent. So if you cause harm in doing that activity for"]},{"start":387.04,"end":392.0,"text":["example, letting off fireworks, you're liable even if you are not negligent. One level above that"]},{"start":392.0,"end":397.12,"text":["is absolute liability. This means that you're liable even if you acted with all the required"]},{"start":397.12,"end":402.8,"text":["due diligence. This is usually something where there's liability ascribed to you via statute."]},{"start":403.44,"end":409.28,"text":["There's also a concept you should know called Res Ipsa Loquiter. This means that if harm"]},{"start":409.28,"end":415.04,"text":["would it normally occur without negligence and the defendant had exclusive control, they need to prove"]},{"start":415.04,"end":421.28,"text":["why they weren't negligent. So it shifts that burden of proof onto the defendant and not the plaintiff."]},{"start":422.16,"end":428.32,"text":["So normally it would be up to the plaintiff to prove those three elements of a tort. However,"]},{"start":428.4,"end":433.52,"text":["the ability of a plaintiff to actually prove those three elements of a tort can be impaired"]},{"start":433.52,"end":439.36,"text":["if the tort occurred due to a force majeure, meaning an unexpected or uncontrollable event."]},{"start":439.92,"end":444.08,"text":["If the plaintiff's actions somehow led to the situation or contributed to it,"]},{"start":444.08,"end":449.44,"text":["or if there was a deliberate action taken by the plaintiff or by a third party that led to this"]},{"start":449.44,"end":454.32,"text":["scenario occurring, or if the plaintiff has consented to the activity because in that case they"]},{"start":454.4,"end":459.36,"text":["have a voluntary assumption of risk. For example, if they agreed to participate in a combat sport."]},{"start":462.719,"end":468.32,"text":["Now what is negligence? Negligence is basically carelessness. It's the failure to use the care"]},{"start":468.32,"end":474.08,"text":["of a reasonable and prudent person given the circumstances. So it really varies case by case."]},{"start":474.8,"end":479.68,"text":["However, it basically means you've acted in a way you shouldn't have or you fail to act"]},{"start":479.68,"end":484.4,"text":["when you should have. If someone is suing you for negligence, the plaintiff must prove that"]},{"start":484.4,"end":489.2,"text":["you owe them a legal duty and that the legal duty was breached by negligence. And of course,"]},{"start":489.2,"end":496.24,"text":["that damage is resulted. However, there is a defense called foreseeability. The defendant is not"]},{"start":496.24,"end":503.12,"text":["negligent if the outcome of their actions was not reasonably foreseeable. If you are sued for negligence"]},{"start":503.12,"end":508.0,"text":["and you have liability insurance, the insurance company will find and pay for a lawyer to defend you."]},{"start":510.16,"end":516.0,"text":["In this section, I want to talk about some important legal precedence which determine where you"]},{"start":516.0,"end":522.48,"text":["might face liability risks. Let's talk first about ownership of property. When you own property"]},{"start":522.48,"end":527.84,"text":["you're exposing yourself to many different liability risks. As an occupier, you owe different"]},{"start":527.84,"end":532.96,"text":["duties to different types of people entering your premises. Trespassers are people who have"]},{"start":532.96,"end":538.32,"text":["entered your premises without permission. The only duty you owe them is not to set traps or"]},{"start":538.48,"end":544.32,"text":["cause them any intentional harm. Licensees are people who have entered your premises for their own"]},{"start":544.32,"end":550.4,"text":["purpose but with permission from the occupier. The duty you owe to licensees is to one of any"]},{"start":550.4,"end":557.44,"text":["dangers known to the occupier that they would not reasonably expect. Examples of licensees include"]},{"start":557.44,"end":565.68,"text":["mailmen, roofers and other such contractors. Invites are people invited in for the benefit of the"]},{"start":566.64,"end":571.839,"text":["example for business purposes or as a customer to purchase products. The duty you owed invitees"]},{"start":571.839,"end":577.199,"text":["is to protect them against any dangers you know of or you might reasonably discover if you"]},{"start":577.199,"end":583.839,"text":["actually took the time to look. Children are a special class of entity and they are protected by law."]},{"start":584.4,"end":588.8,"text":["The duty you owe to children is to make sure that the premises is safe from all dangers."]},{"start":589.68,"end":596.079,"text":["In BC, Alberta, Ontario, and Nova Scotia, we use something called the Occupiers' Liability Act."]},{"start":596.079,"end":602.719,"text":["This combines both licensees and invitees into one category called visitor. The duty you owe to"]},{"start":602.719,"end":606.959,"text":["visitors is to make sure they are reasonably safe for the purpose of their visit."]},{"start":609.04,"end":614.079,"text":["Now what kind of duty do you owe to people outside the premises? Essentially you have to make"]},{"start":614.08,"end":618.08,"text":["sure nothing you do in the building leaks out and causes harm to other people."]},{"start":619.68,"end":624.96,"text":["The duty you owe them is related to the use of the building as well as the maintenance of the building."]},{"start":624.96,"end":630.08,"text":["For example you can't release toxic fumes and you have to maintain any overhang signs such"]},{"start":630.08,"end":632.88,"text":["that it doesn't fall down and hit a pedestrian on the head."]},{"start":636.08,"end":641.76,"text":["Now what about landlords? What are landlords liable for? Landlords can be liable when the"]},{"start":641.76,"end":647.2,"text":["incorrectly sworn fitness of the premises for a particular use or when they conceal an adverse"]},{"start":647.2,"end":653.52,"text":["condition. So if you hide a dangerous condition or incorrectly guarantee fitness for a particular"]},{"start":653.52,"end":659.52,"text":["use you could be liable. An example would be if you were renting a second for premises and you had"]},{"start":659.52,"end":666.16,"text":["a tenant who asks you if the premises is fit for a gym. If you say yes and he moves in his weight"]},{"start":666.24,"end":672.24,"text":["equipment and is too much of the floor to handle it collapses and hurts someone, the landlord would be"]},{"start":672.24,"end":678.079,"text":["liable. This is because you guaranteed that the premises was fit for gym use when actually it was not."]},{"start":679.439,"end":683.92,"text":["Landlords can also be liable when they rent a furnished premises because when you do that it's"]},{"start":683.92,"end":689.12,"text":["assumed fit for the purpose it was furnished. You're also liable when the landlord agrees to"]},{"start":689.12,"end":694.64,"text":["maintain the premises but you fail to do so after having been given enough notice and landlord"]},{"start":694.64,"end":700.8,"text":["would also be liable for common areas. Now let's talk about liability of tenants. If you're"]},{"start":700.8,"end":706.96,"text":["a tenant, you could be liable to your landlord for property damage. Under toward law tenants are liable"]},{"start":706.96,"end":712.88,"text":["for damages caused by negligence. Under contract law tenants can assume some extra liability"]},{"start":712.88,"end":719.04,"text":["in their lease agreement. Next let's talk about liability of children. Children are generally"]},{"start":719.04,"end":724.24,"text":["responsible for their own actions unless you can prove that they lack an understanding of the consequences."]},{"start":725.12,"end":729.439,"text":["Parents are generally not liable for the actions of their children unless they fail to"]},{"start":729.439,"end":734.88,"text":["supervise the child. The damage was caused by a dangerous object given to the child by the parents."]},{"start":735.28,"end":739.84,"text":["The child is acting on the authority of the parents or if the child is working at the parent's"]},{"start":739.84,"end":743.68,"text":["business and if the damage is resulted from duties given to the child."]},{"start":746.72,"end":752.24,"text":["A bailee for hire is someone who has temporary custody of the property of others for purpose other"]},{"start":752.24,"end":758.64,"text":["than sale and that they are compensated for it. Examples include dry cleaners who clean your clothes"]},{"start":758.64,"end":766.08,"text":["or storage people. Next I want to discuss employers liability for employees. So when"]},{"start":766.08,"end":771.28,"text":["employers are generally considered by carelessly liable for employee torts while they're in the"]},{"start":771.28,"end":778.24,"text":["course of business. However employers would not be liable when employees delegate their duties to"]},{"start":778.32,"end":783.52,"text":["someone else without the employers consent. The employee is on a frolic of their own,"]},{"start":783.52,"end":790.0,"text":["meaning an authorized time away from the business or if the damage was caused by the unauthorized"]},{"start":790.0,"end":796.16,"text":["use of the employer's property. So I want to talk a little bit more about frolic of their own."]},{"start":797.36,"end":802.16,"text":["If you send your manager to go to the bank and make a deposit and your manager hit somebody"]},{"start":802.16,"end":807.28,"text":["with their car on the way to the bank, the employer would be vicariously liable because the"]},{"start":807.28,"end":813.439,"text":["managers in the course of their duties. However, if on the way back from the bank, the manager decides"]},{"start":813.439,"end":818.64,"text":["to make an unauthorized detour to Starbucks to get a cup of coffee and on the way to Starbucks,"]},{"start":818.64,"end":824.319,"text":["they hit someone with a car. The employer would not be liable because the employee is considered"]},{"start":824.319,"end":830.64,"text":["to be on a frolic of their own. Next is the employer's liability for employee injuries."]},{"start":831.36,"end":836.959,"text":["The legal duty of employers are established in the Workers Compensation Act and employers are generally"]},{"start":837.28,"end":843.44,"text":["liable for their employees' injuries. Any compensation provided by the Workers Compensation Act"]},{"start":843.44,"end":848.88,"text":["is given on a no-fault basis. That means the employee does not need to prove that the employer"]},{"start":848.88,"end":853.52,"text":["was negligent and if they accept the money, they cannot sue the employer anymore."]},{"start":854.56,"end":859.84,"text":["If Workers Compensation does not cover the injury, of course the employee can still sue the employer."]},{"start":861.36,"end":866.56,"text":["If your employee is not covered by Workers Compensation, you can either enroll them manually,"]},{"start":866.96,"end":872.88,"text":["or you can purchase an employer's liability rider to protect the employer against any liability"]},{"start":872.88,"end":882.0,"text":["that might arise due to employee injuries. What about your liability if you hire an independent"]},{"start":882.0,"end":886.56,"text":["contractor? You're generally not liable for your contractors' negligence,"]},{"start":886.56,"end":891.84,"text":["except when the work is inherently dangerous, like dynamite a tree stump, when you supply"]},{"start":891.84,"end":896.72,"text":["defective materials or equipment or when you control the work. When you control the work,"]},{"start":897.12,"end":902.72,"text":["they're not independent anymore. The work must also be reasonable and the insured must have been"]},{"start":902.72,"end":907.68,"text":["very careful in selecting the contractor. You can't just pick anyone really nearly."]},{"start":909.04,"end":914.48,"text":["Now what about liability for animals? Animals are broken down into two categories. You have domestic"]},{"start":914.48,"end":919.84,"text":["animals and you have wild animals. In some provinces there might also be a dangerous dog's act"]},{"start":919.84,"end":926.24,"text":["which might require you to purchase insurance. For domestic animals, the owner is considered liable"]},{"start":926.32,"end":932.32,"text":["on the first bite. For wild animals, the owner is strictly liable for any damage caused by that"]},{"start":932.32,"end":940.0,"text":["animal. Join liability exists when multiple parties act negligently together. When liabilities"]},{"start":940.0,"end":945.6,"text":["distributed unequally, the law holds each party fully responsible. That means each party can actually"]},{"start":945.6,"end":951.28,"text":["be liable for up to 100% of the damage as if they have acted alone. So this encourages the two"]},{"start":951.92,"end":957.92,"text":["parties to just go 50-50 and then sort it out later. That way the plaintiff gets compensated first."]},{"start":960.0,"end":966.079,"text":["There are also many legal precedence that surround premises liability, which handles any"]},{"start":966.079,"end":970.64,"text":["injuries occurring on the occupiers premises, which is very similar to what we discussed"]},{"start":970.64,"end":976.319,"text":["around ownership of property previously. So an owner has a legal duty to keep the premises"]},{"start":976.4,"end":982.4,"text":["reasonably safe for visitors. Visitors will include inviteees, licensees and trespassers."]},{"start":983.92,"end":989.2,"text":["Any claims for premises liability here will alleged knowledge of the dangerous condition"]},{"start":989.2,"end":993.36,"text":["and then a failure to fix it or to warn visitors of the dangerous condition."]},{"start":994.48,"end":998.72,"text":["The injured person must prove that there was negligence on the part of the premises occupier."]},{"start":1001.92,"end":1005.76,"text":["Now let's talk about the ensuring agreement that governs liability policies."]},{"start":1006.32,"end":1011.12,"text":["The first piece is that liability policies ensure against bodily injury and property damage."]},{"start":1012.0,"end":1015.2,"text":["Body injury is defined as either injury, sickness, or death."]},{"start":1016.16,"end":1020.72,"text":["Body injury is something that comes from external sources. It's usually physical"]},{"start":1020.72,"end":1025.6,"text":["like any hit by a car. Sickness is something that manifests internally,"]},{"start":1025.6,"end":1030.88,"text":["such as developing cancer after consuming poison water. Death means death resulting from"]},{"start":1030.88,"end":1038.16,"text":["either bodily injury or sickness. Property damage means physical injury to tangible property"]},{"start":1038.16,"end":1044.16,"text":["including the loss of use to undamaged property. An important characteristic of liability"]},{"start":1044.16,"end":1049.6,"text":["policies is that they only pay when the insured is found legally liable. That means the insured"]},{"start":1049.6,"end":1057.36,"text":["has to lose in court before the liability policy will pay damages. Coverage also only available"]},{"start":1057.36,"end":1063.76,"text":["to third parties. That means payments are only available to parties that are not named on the policy."]},{"start":1063.76,"end":1069.52,"text":["If you are named on the policy, you are not considered a third party and therefore are not entitled"]},{"start":1069.52,"end":1077.52,"text":["to receive payment for damages. Liability policies also only pay for compensatory damages. That"]},{"start":1077.52,"end":1083.04,"text":["means there's no coverage for normative or non-damages and there's no coverage for punitive or"]},{"start":1083.12,"end":1090.24,"text":["exemplary damages. Normative or nominal damages are awarded when there is liability but there's no actual"]},{"start":1090.24,"end":1097.36,"text":["damage. In that case, the court would order the defendant to pay the plaintiff $1 or some other"]},{"start":1097.36,"end":1103.76,"text":["nominal sum to determine who was right and who was wrong. Exemplary or punitive damages"]},{"start":1104.56,"end":1110.48,"text":["exist to punish the defendant. This could include fines or other aggravated damages."]},{"start":1111.44,"end":1116.56,"text":["Compensatory damages are amounts meant to compensate the wrong party for their injuries."]},{"start":1117.36,"end":1120.08,"text":["This is the only type of damage that is insurable."]},{"start":1124.24,"end":1129.76,"text":["Coverage is also provided on an occurrence basis. That means the policy that was enforced at the time"]},{"start":1129.76,"end":1135.68,"text":["the loss occurred is the one that pays. For example, if there's a chemical leak that started in"]},{"start":1135.68,"end":1142.8,"text":["2008 but was not discovered or the claim was not brought until 2018, if the 2008 policy that"]},{"start":1142.8,"end":1149.44,"text":["would pay provided that policy was a current based. It occurrence is defined as an accident,"]},{"start":1149.44,"end":1155.52,"text":["including long-term exposure. An accident is defined as something that is sudden and unexpected"]},{"start":1155.52,"end":1161.6,"text":["and occurs at a particular point in time such as a car crash. It continues or long-term exposure"]},{"start":1162.24,"end":1167.76,"text":["occurs over a long period of time, such as being exposed to contaminated baby powder for a number"]},{"start":1167.76,"end":1176.0,"text":["of years. The limits of insurance apply per occurrence. If you purchase a $5 million liability limit,"]},{"start":1176.0,"end":1181.52,"text":["you will have $5 million per occurrence. There might also be an aggregate limit,"]},{"start":1181.52,"end":1187.84,"text":["which is the maximum for all claims made during that policy period. There may also be split limits."]},{"start":1187.919,"end":1192.959,"text":["A split limit is a separate limit for per person injury, injury of everybody,"]},{"start":1192.959,"end":1196.56,"text":["and property damage. So you can think of this sort of sub-limit."]},{"start":1198.0,"end":1203.6,"text":["Liability insurance generally comes in two forms. It can be an occurrence form or a claims made form."]},{"start":1204.399,"end":1208.959,"text":["Under an occurrence form, coverage is triggered when the actual accident or the incident"]},{"start":1208.959,"end":1214.56,"text":["itself happens during the policy period regardless of when the claim was reported."]},{"start":1214.56,"end":1220.159,"text":["So it emphasizes the occurrence time frame. If the incident happened while the policy was active,"]},{"start":1220.159,"end":1225.28,"text":["it's covered even if the claim was reported later. This offers more continuity and coverage"]},{"start":1225.28,"end":1228.96,"text":["with policy changes, for example, if you switch to a different insurance provider."]},{"start":1229.919,"end":1236.399,"text":["For example, if the accident occurred during the 2023-2024 policy term, when it was discovered in"]},{"start":1236.399,"end":1244.48,"text":["2025 and reported then, it would still be covered by the policy that was in place from 2023-2024."]},{"start":1245.2,"end":1251.84,"text":["So an occurrence form triggers based on when the actual accident or incident occurred."]},{"start":1252.56,"end":1257.679,"text":["This is different from a claims made form where a coverage is triggered when a claim is filed"]},{"start":1257.679,"end":1263.04,"text":["during the policy period or during the extended reporting period. So with the claims made form,"]},{"start":1263.04,"end":1268.08,"text":["we're focused on when the incident was reported, not necessarily when it happened."]},{"start":1268.08,"end":1274.24,"text":["So it emphasizes the reporting time frame. The claim must be filed within the specific window"]},{"start":1274.56,"end":1280.8,"text":["for coverage to apply. So you can see when you switch between a claims made form and an occurrence"]},{"start":1280.8,"end":1286.08,"text":["form or vice versa, it can leave gaps in coverage, especially if there's a past incident"]},{"start":1286.08,"end":1291.679,"text":["that isn't reported before the policy expires. Because once that claims made form has expired,"]},{"start":1292.159,"end":1296.24,"text":["you're not able to make a claim for incident that occurred during that time because that window"]},{"start":1296.24,"end":1301.44,"text":["has passed that policy's no longer enforced. And the occurrence form wasn't active in the past"]},{"start":1301.44,"end":1307.2,"text":["when the incident occurred so the occurrence form wouldn't respond either. So to be very careful"]},{"start":1307.2,"end":1312.96,"text":["when you switch your clients between a claims made form to an occurrence form. So there's a concept"]},{"start":1312.96,"end":1318.48,"text":["in claims made forms called the retroactive date. Basically, it's the cut-off date in the past"]},{"start":1318.48,"end":1324.32,"text":["for when we would provide coverage. So when you set a retroactive date to say March 30th, 2025"]},{"start":1324.88,"end":1329.12,"text":["anything that occurred before that date would not be covered. So when you're switching"]},{"start":1329.199,"end":1334.399,"text":["insurers even on a claims made form, you want to ensure that the new policy matches the"]},{"start":1334.399,"end":1339.36,"text":["expiring policies retroactive date, otherwise there's a gap in coverage unless you purchase"]},{"start":1339.36,"end":1346.239,"text":["an extended reporting period endorsement. So the extended reporting period endorsement basically"]},{"start":1346.239,"end":1353.199,"text":["allows additional time post policy expiry to file claims under the old policy. So let's use an"]},{"start":1353.2,"end":1359.84,"text":["example. Let's say you had an occurrence in 2022 and your policy as it claims made form. If you had"]},{"start":1359.84,"end":1365.44,"text":["maintained continuous coverage with that same policy the same is sure from 2022 to when the incident"]},{"start":1365.44,"end":1371.36,"text":["was reported in 2024, that incident would be covered because you kept that same policy. The retroactive"]},{"start":1371.36,"end":1376.32,"text":["date was back in 2022 and the policy was first put in place. Therefore you have coverage when you"]},{"start":1376.399,"end":1383.12,"text":["reported in 2024. If you had switched insurance companies part way, let's say from the 2022 to 2023"]},{"start":1383.12,"end":1390.56,"text":["period you were with company A from 2023 to 2024 and the company B policy did not match the retroactive"]},{"start":1390.56,"end":1395.439,"text":["date. In that case the company B policy would not respond because the incident happened before"]},{"start":1395.439,"end":1400.879,"text":["the retroactive date of that company B policy. That's why the extended reporting period endorsement"]},{"start":1400.88,"end":1406.56,"text":["is important. If you had purchased that when you switched the policy in 2023, the old policy would have"]},{"start":1406.56,"end":1412.88,"text":["responded because it was reported during that extended period. So technically speaking, occurrence"]},{"start":1412.88,"end":1418.96,"text":["forms have a lot more flexibility than claims made forms as far as coverage goes because I could have"]},{"start":1418.96,"end":1426.96,"text":["purchased a current policy in 1995. Something happened then I reported it in 2025. Technically speaking,"]},{"start":1426.96,"end":1433.28,"text":["the 1995 policy would respond so I can call up that insurance company from 10 years ago and they"]},{"start":1433.28,"end":1439.44,"text":["would actually have to respond to that incident. Now let's talk about the duties of the"]},{"start":1439.44,"end":1444.56,"text":["insured in the event of an occurrence or claim. So when there is an occurrence or claim,"]},{"start":1444.56,"end":1450.72,"text":["the insured generally must cooperate. A handy acronym I use for remembering these duties is"]},{"start":1450.72,"end":1456.48,"text":["PALAC, but feel free to come up with your own. So P stands for prompt notice. You have to provide"]},{"start":1456.48,"end":1461.28,"text":["problem notice to the insurance company of any occurrence that might lead to a claim. Even if the"]},{"start":1461.28,"end":1466.96,"text":["claim hasn't actually been filed yet. So you have to tell them the time, place, circumstance,"]},{"start":1466.96,"end":1472.56,"text":["and contact information for any witnesses. You also have to assist in any investigation,"]},{"start":1472.56,"end":1478.88,"text":["settlement or defense. Any legal papers you receive must be immediately forwarded to the insurance"]},{"start":1479.76,"end":1483.36,"text":["company. A lot of these legal papers have a time limit on when you have to respond."]},{"start":1484.64,"end":1488.64,"text":["You must also authorize the insurance company to obtain any information they need,"]},{"start":1488.64,"end":1494.48,"text":["whether that be police reports or medical records. You also cannot make any voluntary payments"]},{"start":1494.48,"end":1504.08,"text":["to the victims other than providing them first aid. Now on top of the damages that are paid by"]},{"start":1504.08,"end":1508.8,"text":["the liability policy, the insurance company will also cover you for supplementary payments."]},{"start":1509.52,"end":1514.56,"text":["Supplementary payments include the cost of defense, the expenses incurred by the insured in order"]},{"start":1514.56,"end":1519.52,"text":["to assist and he court costs assessed against the insured or any interest payable."]},{"start":1521.04,"end":1525.76,"text":["This supplementary payments are made on top of your limit of insurance. Your limit of"]},{"start":1525.76,"end":1531.84,"text":["insurance only exists to pay damages. The supplementary payments are paid in access of that."]},{"start":1532.72,"end":1538.159,"text":["So cost of defense is very straightforward. Legal fees, the cost of hiring expert witnesses,"]},{"start":1538.879,"end":1543.04,"text":["and other expenses of that nature. What about expenses of the insured?"]},{"start":1543.6,"end":1548.56,"text":["So expenses of the insured are basically expenses that the insured has paid for out of pocket"]},{"start":1548.56,"end":1553.6,"text":["in order to assist the insurance company with the defense, investigation or settlement. This"]},{"start":1553.6,"end":1559.04,"text":["includes loss wages for having to show up in court, transportation fees to and from court,"]},{"start":1559.04,"end":1564.0,"text":["and other reasonable expenses. Court costs assessed against the insured,"]},{"start":1564.0,"end":1568.32,"text":["meaning that sometimes courts will require the insured to pay court costs if you lose."]},{"start":1568.72,"end":1574.639,"text":["The insured's company will pay for those. Also, bond premiums. If you want to file an appeal or"]},{"start":1574.639,"end":1579.52,"text":["do other legal manoeuvres, the court might require you to post a bond. The insured's company"]},{"start":1579.52,"end":1586.08,"text":["will pay the premiums on those bonds. Also, an interest payable on amounts up to or less than"]},{"start":1586.08,"end":1591.52,"text":["your limited insurance will be covered. Usually what happens is the plaintiff doesn't get paid"]},{"start":1591.52,"end":1597.199,"text":["for their damages until the right of appeal has passed. In the meantime, interest will accrue on"]},{"start":1597.199,"end":1602.8,"text":["that amount. The insurance company will pay for that. It's important to know that different"]},{"start":1602.8,"end":1607.84,"text":["liability policies exist for different activities. If you run a business, fly an aircraft,"]},{"start":1608.399,"end":1613.439,"text":["or have professional liability, you will need to purchase different insurance policies. We'll"]},{"start":1613.44,"end":1616.16,"text":["talk more about those in detail later on."]}]},"language":"eng","alpha3_terminologic":"eng","alpha3_bibliographic":"eng","iso639_2_language_code":"en","english_name":"English","media_hashed_id":"6pn4evy428","native_name":"English","right_to_left":false,"generic_name":"English","generic_native_name":"English"}],"preferred_languages":["eng"]}